
1

Automatic Zoom
 1 
DSAI4205 - Big Data Analytics 
Instructor: Dr. Ken FONG 
Group Project Assignment (25%) 
This project involves a system development task. Each team will develop a sentimental analysis on 
text data. The task details are as follow: 
 
Project Overview:  
Your group will be given a business textual dataset, with a standardized data splitting and evaluation 
metric. Your task is to develop a “good-performing” decision support system that classifies text. 
1. Build a baseline model (i.e., a model with basic setup and no fine-tuning, e.g., logistic 
regression) 
2. Compare with at least N other data analytics models (e.g., Gradient boosting tree, decision 
tree, etc) and word embeddings models (BERT, GloVE, Word2vec, etc) 
3. Develop methods to improve your baseline models (e.g., ensemble models, fine-tune different 
hyper-parameter for the models above, etc) and report the best score.  
4. Visualize with at least N data statistics. There are many ways that can describe patterns 
found in data, including chart and figures (e.g., bar charts, line graphs, word cloud, word 
distribution, etc), as well as statistical metrics like central tendency (mean, mode and median) 
and dispersion (range, variance, maximum, minimum, quartiles), correlation and standard 
deviation.   
(N correspond to your number of group members) 
Note that higher marks will be given for developing novel and viable methods that are not taught in 
class 
 
In your code submission part (i.e., Jupyter Notebook file), they need to cover the code 
implementation for Point 1-4; and a short table and/or text (less than 300 words) that describe 
Point 1-4 (e.g., what model, hyper-parameter, visualization techniques you have tried and/or their 
scores and details). You can elaborate more detail in your report part. And highlight the main point in 
your power point (refers to the Submission Section below). 
You  can use any visualization and model improvement techniques. However, you have to use the 
SAME data splitting and evaluation metric throughout the project (marks will be deduced if 
these two conditions are found changed in the submission).  
Each student needs to upload a work distribution file like below in word file to the Blackboard to 
indicate the work distribution of you and your teammate (you don’t need to let your group mate to 
know the work distribution you feel) 
Team X: 
Members (Full name)  Student ID  Work Distribution 
Chan Tai Man   000000  20% 
Wong Tai Man  000001  20% 
Chen Tai Man  000002  20% 
Tsang Tai Man  000003  20% 
Ng Tai Man  000004  20% 
 
   
 2 
Marking Scheme for Group project (20%) 
• Implementation of a big analytical data management system and decision support system 
using professional software (10%): Whether your group have a good-performing system and a 
comprehensive evaluation   
• Problem definition (demonstrate the understanding of the problem and formulate alternative 
solutions) (5%): Within the scope of the Big-Data area, whether your group have clearly 
describe the problem, list out related constraints, and able to formulate alternative solutions.  
• Creative solution design (5%): Whether you can link your Big-Data solution back to the 
context of the company case 
 
Marking Scheme for Presentation (5%) 
• Appropriate time allocation and pace (0.5%): Did your group allocate time appropriately, and 
mange time effectively, with smooth progression? Did your group use appropriate pace? Did 
the presentation start punctually? 
• Clear, logically organized and relevant content (2%): Was information included always 
relevant? Were presented points clearly stated and developed? Did the materials flow 
extremely well? Were the materials well organized? Were there any ambiguities are left 
unexplained? 
• Uses good body language, eye contact, and appropriate voice tone (1%): Did the group show 
balanced posture, enthusiasm and confidence? Did the group make good eye contact with 
audience?  Did the group use voice tone effectively? 
• Gains/holds attention (1%): Did the group provide good motivation to engage the audience’s 
interest? Did the group present the contents in a manner that captivates the audience’s 
attention? 
• Clarity of speech/Accuracy of grammar & pronunciation (0.5%): Was the voice consistently 
comprehensible? Were grammar and pronunciation accurate? 
 
Submission (23 Nov 2025 23:55 HK Time) 
Each team should find a representative to submit three files onto the blackboard: 
1. A Jupyter Notebook file containing all deliverables regarding the system development task 
(e.g., the model performance, evaluation description and visualization) 
2. A written report in MS Word file (2 pages max) that provides a background description of 
your system, how you approach the problem, and a critical evaluation of the system.  
3. A PowerPoint file that you use in the presentation covering highlights in (1) and (2). 
 